type: Blog 
title: Memorizing, Part I
author: Stevo
tags: memory, clarity
date: february 26, 2013
text:
Quickly and easily remembering anything requires a strong association of the unknown with the known. 
Linking what you'd like to remember with what you're given will enable recall at any time. 

When I’m about to go to bed and I remember something I’d like to do in the morning, I often forget after I wake up! 
A common trick to circumvent this memory loss is to put something out of place. 
For example, I keep my room clean, so I often place a piece of clothing in the middle of the floor. 
After waking up, I notice the out-of-place clothing, which reminds me of the task I thought of the night before. 
By linking the known (something you must know or notice) with the unknown (a task or object’s location), you’ll never forget another task shortly after thinking about it. 
This is essentially what a to-do list is. 
You do not have to remember every little item on your list; you simply remember where the list is located, and the list will remind you of all those tasks. 

Surely everyone has done this linking before, whether consciously or subconsciously. 
So let’s take it a step further and learn to use it actively. 
What else would you like to remember? 
At school, classes frequently require memorizing long lists of organized topics or ideas. 
For example, biological classifications are taught in the first biology course, and they’re just an ordered list of words. 
Students can spend lots of time learning the list, but a simple mnemonic enables fast memorization. 
Try memorizing a sentence, and associate each word’s first letter with a classification. 
“King Phillip Came Over From Great Spain” works well and is easy to remember. 
As long as you can associate each letter with its classification, you’ll never forget the list. 
Other common mnemonics include singing a list to a known tune, creating an acronym from the list, and associating parts of your body or room to the items. 
You’ll always remember which months have 31 days by counting the peaks and troughs of your knuckles and double-counting the pinky. 

The simple examples presented rely on a more general idea, linking. 
In the next entry, I’ll present an easy way to memorize more complex things, like speeches and birthdays.
