type: Blog
title: Memorizing, Part II
author: Stevo
tags: memory, clarity
date: March 10, 2013
text:
In part 1 of this series, I presented the concept of linking, which I first discovered while reading <i>The Memory Book</i> by Harry Lorayne and Jerry Lucas. 
I recommend reading this book if you’re interested in learning more about memorization than what’s presented in these blog entries. 

The basic concept of linking is associating something easily remembered or apparent with something you’d like to remember. 
Using this method, memorizing a list can be reduced to memorizing a single item. 
Let’s say your list is "cat, dog, squirrel, hamster". 
For whatever reason, you’d like to remember this list. 
First, you start with visualizing a cat. 
Hopefully you can remember this first item in your list. 
Then, you associate the known (cat) with the next unknown (dog) in some way. 
For example, you can picture that cat you visualized before as being chased by a dog. 
Sillier pictures are better, but this will do for now. 
Now that you’ve remembered "dog", you can picture this dog chasing a squirrel. 
Remembering the dog will force you to remember the squirrel. 
Next, picture the squirrel fighting the hamster. 
This absurd image will ensure that you never forget what comes after the squirrel.  
In this way, we’ve reduced a list down to just its first element. 
After remembering the first element, the links you’ve formed will allow you to recall the rest of the list in order easily. 

One problem with this idea is that not all lists are inherently visual. 
An alphabetical list of the 50 U.S. 
States can be tough to picture in your head. 
To memorize a non-visual list, you must first substitute each word or phrase with a visual word or phase. 
For example, to remember North Carolina, picture a line of carolers heading north. 
This "north carol line" will easily harken back to North Carolina, and it’s much easier to remember than North Carolina by itself. 
This technique is called substitution. 
Replace a desired phrase with a similar-sounding phrase that is easier to visualize. 

Let’s learn one more technique before putting it all together. 
This technique is called abstraction. 
If you want to remember a speech, you are hopefully knowledgeable enough about the topic that you can speak without aid. 
However, sometimes getting started or transitioning from one idea to another can cause you to stumble. 
So first, break down your speech into paragraphs, where each paragraph presents a single idea. 
This idea is an abstraction of an entire paragraph. 
Assuming you can ad lib the paragraph given just the central idea, all you need to remember is the abstract idea or phrase for each paragraph in your speech. 
Substituting the ideas with visual words, and then linking the visual words together, is an easy way to memorize a speech. 

To summarize, remembering anything can be reduced to abstracting it, applying substitution, and linking it with something known. 
Abstraction and substitution may not be required in all cases. 
Also, adjustments may be necessary to memorize dates or numbers, but the general idea still applies.
