type: Blog
title: Radiation-Induced Soft Errors 
author: Stevo
tags: soft errors, radiation, VLSI
date: march 25, 2013
text:
Computer chip circuits rely on voltages to store and propagate 0s and 1s.
Memory circuits, like static random-access memory (SRAM), store 0s and 1s as voltages in a positive feedback loop (cross-coupled inverters).
Combinational circuits, like logic gates, use input voltage levels to calculate output values. 
Proper operation requires these voltages stay fixed until the next computation. 
However, radiation strikes can alter node voltages in both memory and logic, potentially causing a soft error. 
Soft errors, as opposed to hard errors, are not permanent. 

Soft errors in memory have been studied extensively. 
When a particle strikes a node (in particular, a PN junction), it imparts a charge. 
If this charge is greater than some critical value, the charge will overpower the cross-coupled inverters and flip the stored bit.
Because SRAM cells are so small, a single particle may strike and flip multiple bits. 
To function properly, SRAMs use error-correcting codes (ECCs) and redundancy. 
Additionally, interleaving the words in memory can prevent multiple upsets to the same word, reducing the necessary amount of ECC. 

Outside of memory, soft errors are less detrimental. 
When a particle strikes a node in logic, it must propagate to the next flip-flop and arrive within the latching window to cause an error. 
The chance of this happening is small. 
Also, if the flip-flop is ultimately unimportant to the architectural state, the error is benign. 
For these reasons, the soft error rate of combinational logic is much lower than that of memory, and much less research has been done in this area. 

As the desire for energy reduction lowers voltage levels, radiation-induced soft errors may occur more frequently in both logic and memory. 
|projects.htm?project=upset|This class project| of mine investigates the soft error rate of logic in emerging technologies, specifically a 28nm silicon on insulator (SOI) technology. 
